All right,
your job is to create a some kinda navbar.
You can either take one inspired
by Instagram or you can kind of,
I left some icons here for whatever
you wanna do, some of these are for
them bottom nav, whatever,
do whatever you want.
But the idea is we want at
least the logo and the avatar,
and then a search field
which will grow and
shrink kind of based on
the size of the navigation bar.
So our mission is to create something
that looks kinda like a navigation bar.
We've got some component
pieces laying around here.
Let's go ahead and
start to arrange them in a way that
feels navigationey,
that's the technical term.
We can go ahead and put that maybe in
the middle, and you could decide that you
actually want it over to the right,
you do whatever you want.
I am going to then,
let's go within the middle and
then we'll see how to adjust it.
Maybe messages too,
messages should go up there, right?
I don't know.
Put that there as well,
and we can kinda already
see a little bit of the structure
of what we're gonna wanna do here.
So we'll kind of take this here and
we'll wrap that in a frame and
we'll say account and messages.
We'll call this one,
So we can take the three of these now,
wrap it in a frame with, again, I can
either right-click and say Frame selection
or on a Mac, its Command option G.
I think it's Ctrl+Alt+G on Windows,
and we've kind of got that in place.
Now, it's not perfect yet,
because that's not what I want to happen.
Are those in there?
Yeah, those are in my frame.
That's not an auto layout just yet.
So actually, what happened.
All right, so,
I don't know if I wanted to change that or
not, but we'll find out together,
we'll make this whole auto layout frame.
But yeah,
it doesn't stretch the way that I want.
So just wrapping it in auto
layout does not solve my problems
immediately like I would like it to.
So what do we need to do?
We need to change this from,
Having a fixed gap to auto.
Right, so
now we've got some of that in place.
And so far, not bad, right?
The fact that these are wrapped
together in one nested auto frame,
we can give that, it's not an auto frame
just yet, but we'll give that one as well.
And then we don't want these to be auto.
We want this one to, let's go with 8,
which is the number we used before, and
we actually have this one
hugged as Contents, right?
So that one will expand and contract
based on what's in it, other than that,
the bar itself will then space
everything out based on its own.
So the navigation bar in and
of itself has a fixed width, and
then everything inside
of it is spaced out.
My icons, on the other hand,
if I wanted to drag another one in,
Go and center those,
I can drag additional,
I dragged it outside of that thing,
that's what happened.
It was in a frame,
I dragged the vector out, right?
I can drag additional icons in and
that part will then hug the contents with,
again, that 8 pixel space.
And you can change it to 16,
you can do whatever you want.
Other than that, though,
the items themselves space out.
Now, that kinda gets awkward.
This doesn't really expand or
contract, right?
So I can give this one a fill container,
that's a bit much right as well.
So what I can actually
do here is on the logo,
let's actually give that
one a min width of,
let's go with 240, Right?
We'll do the same here,
we'll give this Account and
Messages a min width of 240 as well, and
we'll right align it, right?
And you can increase that
number if you want to,
they'll always have
some amount of padding.
The other option here is,
if I didn't wanna do this, cuz eventually,
it will butt up against this as well,
and so
that won't necessarily solve
all my problems forever.
Now granted, this is a design, in code,
I think you've gotta be a little bit more
defensive about these things, right?
You can always see that it's not
the way that you thought and change it.
But let's say that if we
added more icons forever,
we'd end up with a problem where it
is smashing up against that as well.
One of the things that macOS does,
if you are in Safari or whatever or
even Finder, and
you're changing the items in that navbar,
is it has this idea of spacers
that you can put in there as well.
So we can try something like that also.
So we can get rid of the min and
max width, I'll say this one.
I'll make that an auto layout as well.
So it's got 8.
And it'll hug the contents, kinda putting
it back to where we had it before.
Same here, we'll get rid of the min width.
So the other option is that we
can add some spacers in here, and
that's really just taking
some kind of frame, Right?
This one happens to be white, but
we can kinda put it in there in between.
This one,
we can get rid of the fill on it,
and we can give that either a min width or
something like that.
We can actually give it
like fill container but
you can give it a max width too or
something along those lines.
So let's add that and
let's give it another copy.
So I'm gonna hold Option and
drag it to duplicate it,
you can see the two mouse cursors here.
So then what we can do here is
give these two a max width,
which means they'll only
grow a certain amount.
And that will let the search bar in
the middle then kind of expand and
contract with the navbar, but with
a certain amount of a bound to it, right?
So we'll grab both of these and
we'll give them a max width instead of,
let's say 180, right?
And so now let's give it
a fill color of white for
now, and
let's give it some horizontal padding.
So now I've got a navbar and you can
see that we have that spacing in there,
we'll give it actually some, There we go.
And now it can, Expand and contract with
a certain amount of extra space between
the search bar and the icons, right?
So you have different approaches,
arguably this is gonna be more
resilient to anything we might need.
You could also choose to let
these be completely fluid, but
give this one a min width and a max
width or something along those lines.
There's various different options.
Honestly, to a certain extent, it's not
necessarily that there's a right way,
they will all mostly achieve
the same effect, right?
As your design grows and changes,
you might find that a certain choice
that you picked might have some
implications that does lead you
into one direction or the other.
But at this point, honestly, any of those
approaches mostly get the job done, and
changing them is pretty easy, especially
when we look at components later and
we can see that we can use
one kinda prototype all over,
making those changes then cascades
throughout all your designs.
But the idea of kind of mixing and
matching various auto layout frames will
kinda allow you to build more
sophisticated designs but
then have a very clear analog to how
you would implement them in Flexbox.